docs/src/content/docs/advanced/faq.mdx, before:

---
title: FAQ
description: Frequently asked questions about obsidian-go-mcp.
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## General

### What is obsidian-go-mcp?

obsidian-go-mcp is an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that lets AI assistants interact with your Obsidian vault. It provides 70 tools for reading, writing, searching, and organizing notes.

### Do I need Obsidian installed?

No. obsidian-go-mcp works directly with Markdown files in your vault folder. Obsidian doesn't need to be installed or running.

### Which AI assistants work with this?

Any MCP-compatible client:
- Claude Desktop
- Cursor
- Cline (VS Code extension)
- Other MCP clients

### Is my data sent to the cloud?

obsidian-go-mcp itself is completely local. However, when you use it with an AI assistant like Claude, the note content you discuss is sent to that AI provider. See [Security](/obsidian-go-mcp/advanced/security) for details.

## Installation

### How do I install on Windows?

Download the Windows binary from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/zach-snell/obsidian-go-mcp/releases) and add it to your PATH, or use:

```powershell
go install github.com/zach-snell/obsidian-go-mcp@latest
```

### The install script says "permission denied"

Try installing to your home directory:

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zach-snell/obsidian-go-mcp/main/install.sh | bash -s -- --user
```

This installs to `~/.local/bin` instead of requiring sudo.

### How do I upgrade?

Re-run the install script or:

```bash
go install github.com/zach-snell/obsidian-go-mcp@latest
```

## Configuration

### Where is the Claude Desktop config file?

| Platform | Path |
|----------|------|
| macOS | `~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json` |
| Windows | `%APPDATA%\Claude\claude_desktop_config.json` |
| Linux | `~/.config/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json` |

### Can I use multiple vaults?

Yes! Add multiple entries to your MCP config:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "work-vault": {
      "command": "obsidian-go-mcp",
      "args": ["/path/to/work-vault"]
    },
    "personal-vault": {
      "command": "obsidian-go-mcp",
      "args": ["/path/to/personal-vault"]
    }
  }
}
```

### The server isn't connecting

1. Check the path in your config is correct
2. Ensure the binary is in your PATH
3. Restart Claude Desktop completely
4. Check Claude Desktop logs for errors

## Usage

### How do I see all available tools?

Ask your AI assistant:
> "What tools are available for my Obsidian vault?"

Or check the [Tools Overview](/obsidian-go-mcp/tools/overview).

### Why isn't the AI finding my note?

Common causes:
- Path might be different than expected (use `list-notes`)
- Search is case-insensitive but might miss partial matches
- Note might be in a subdirectory

Try:
> "List all notes in my vault" or "Search for [partial name]"

### Can I undo changes?

obsidian-go-mcp doesn't have undo. Use:
- Git for version control
- Obsidian's file recovery plugin
- Regular backups

### How do I prevent accidental deletions?

Ask the AI to preview first:
> "Show me what would be deleted, but don't delete yet"

Or use `find-*` tools before `bulk-*` operations.

## Features

### Does it support Dataview queries?

obsidian-go-mcp can read and write Dataview inline fields (`key:: value`), but it doesn't execute Dataview queries. The AI can help you query your data using the search and frontmatter tools.

### Does it work with Obsidian plugins?

It works with plugin data that's stored in files:
- **Templates**: Works with any template files
- **Daily Notes**: Works with any periodic notes
- **Canvas**: Full canvas support

It doesn't interact with:
- Plugin settings
- Plugin APIs
- Obsidian's internal state

### Can it read images or PDFs?

No. obsidian-go-mcp only handles text files (Markdown, JSON for canvas). Images and PDFs are not processed.

### Does it support wiki-style links?

Yes! obsidian-go-mcp fully supports `[[wikilinks]]` and `[[wikilinks|with aliases]]`. Tools like `backlinks`, `forward-links`, and `rename-note` understand and update wikilinks.

## Troubleshooting

### "Command not found: obsidian-go-mcp"

The binary isn't in your PATH. Either:
- Add the install location to PATH
- Use the full path in your MCP config

### "Permission denied" when accessing vault

Check file permissions:
```bash
ls -la /path/to/vault
```

The user running the MCP client needs read/write access.

### Operations are slow

For large vaults (10,000+ notes), some operations like full-vault search may take longer. Use:
- `directory` parameter to limit scope
- `limit` parameter to cap results

### Claude says it can't access the vault

1. Restart Claude Desktop
2. Check config JSON is valid
3. Verify path exists and is accessible
4. Check Claude Desktop developer tools for errors

## Comparison

### vs. Obsidian REST Plugin

| Feature | obsidian-go-mcp | REST Plugin |
|---------|-----------------|-------------|
| Requires Obsidian | No | Yes |
| Runtime | Single binary | Obsidian running |
| Protocol | MCP | HTTP REST |
| Tool count | 70 | Varies |

### vs. Other MCP Servers

| Feature | obsidian-go-mcp | Node.js servers |
|---------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Runtime | None (binary) | Node.js |
| Startup | ~10ms | Seconds |
| Install | One file | npm install |
| Platforms | All | Varies |

## Contributing

### How do I report a bug?

Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/zach-snell/obsidian-go-mcp/issues) with:
- What you expected
- What happened
- Steps to reproduce
- obsidian-go-mcp version

### How do I request a feature?

Open a GitHub issue with the `enhancement` label describing:
- What you want to do
- Why it would be useful
- Any implementation ideas

### Can I contribute code?

Yes! See the [Development](/obsidian-go-mcp/advanced/development) guide for setup instructions and contribution guidelines.

Commit message:

docs: replace residual obsidian-go-mcp template strings with bbkt

docs/src/content/docs/advanced/faq.mdx, after:

---
title: FAQ
description: Frequently asked questions about bbkt.
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## General

### What is bbkt?

bbkt is an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that lets AI assistants interact with your Obsidian vault. It provides 70 tools for reading, writing, searching, and organizing notes.

### Do I need Obsidian installed?

No. bbkt works directly with Markdown files in your vault folder. Obsidian doesn't need to be installed or running.

### Which AI assistants work with this?

Any MCP-compatible client:
- Claude Desktop
- Cursor
- Cline (VS Code extension)
- Other MCP clients

### Is my data sent to the cloud?

bbkt itself is completely local. However, when you use it with an AI assistant like Claude, the note content you discuss is sent to that AI provider. See [Security](/bbkt/advanced/security) for details.

## Installation

### How do I install on Windows?

Download the Windows binary from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/zach-snell/bbkt/releases) and add it to your PATH, or use:

```powershell
go install github.com/zach-snell/bbkt@latest
```

### The install script says "permission denied"

Try installing to your home directory:

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zach-snell/bbkt/main/install.sh | bash -s -- --user
```

This installs to `~/.local/bin` instead of requiring sudo.

### How do I upgrade?

Re-run the install script or:

```bash
go install github.com/zach-snell/bbkt@latest
```

## Configuration

### Where is the Claude Desktop config file?

| Platform | Path |
|----------|------|
| macOS | `~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json` |
| Windows | `%APPDATA%\Claude\claude_desktop_config.json` |
| Linux | `~/.config/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json` |

### Can I use multiple vaults?

Yes! Add multiple entries to your MCP config:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "work-vault": {
      "command": "bbkt",
      "args": ["/path/to/work-vault"]
    },
    "personal-vault": {
      "command": "bbkt",
      "args": ["/path/to/personal-vault"]
    }
  }
}
```

### The server isn't connecting

1. Check the path in your config is correct
2. Ensure the binary is in your PATH
3. Restart Claude Desktop completely
4. Check Claude Desktop logs for errors

## Usage

### How do I see all available tools?

Ask your AI assistant:
> "What tools are available for my Obsidian vault?"

Or check the [Tools Overview](/bbkt/tools/overview).

### Why isn't the AI finding my note?

Common causes:
- Path might be different than expected (use `list-notes`)
- Search is case-insensitive but might miss partial matches
- Note might be in a subdirectory

Try:
> "List all notes in my vault" or "Search for [partial name]"

### Can I undo changes?

bbkt doesn't have undo. Use:
- Git for version control
- Obsidian's file recovery plugin
- Regular backups

### How do I prevent accidental deletions?

Ask the AI to preview first:
> "Show me what would be deleted, but don't delete yet"

Or use `find-*` tools before `bulk-*` operations.

## Features

### Does it support Dataview queries?

bbkt can read and write Dataview inline fields (`key:: value`), but it doesn't execute Dataview queries. The AI can help you query your data using the search and frontmatter tools.

### Does it work with Obsidian plugins?

It works with plugin data that's stored in files:
- **Templates**: Works with any template files
- **Daily Notes**: Works with any periodic notes
- **Canvas**: Full canvas support

It doesn't interact with:
- Plugin settings
- Plugin APIs
- Obsidian's internal state

### Can it read images or PDFs?

No. bbkt only handles text files (Markdown, JSON for canvas). Images and PDFs are not processed.

### Does it support wiki-style links?

Yes! bbkt fully supports `[[wikilinks]]` and `[[wikilinks|with aliases]]`. Tools like `backlinks`, `forward-links`, and `rename-note` understand and update wikilinks.

## Troubleshooting

### "Command not found: bbkt"

The binary isn't in your PATH. Either:
- Add the install location to PATH
- Use the full path in your MCP config

### "Permission denied" when accessing vault

Check file permissions:
```bash
ls -la /path/to/vault
```

The user running the MCP client needs read/write access.

### Operations are slow

For large vaults (10,000+ notes), some operations like full-vault search may take longer. Use:
- `directory` parameter to limit scope
- `limit` parameter to cap results

### Claude says it can't access the vault

1. Restart Claude Desktop
2. Check config JSON is valid
3. Verify path exists and is accessible
4. Check Claude Desktop developer tools for errors

## Comparison

### vs. Obsidian REST Plugin

| Feature | bbkt | REST Plugin |
|---------|-----------------|-------------|
| Requires Obsidian | No | Yes |
| Runtime | Single binary | Obsidian running |
| Protocol | MCP | HTTP REST |
| Tool count | 70 | Varies |

### vs. Other MCP Servers

| Feature | bbkt | Node.js servers |
|---------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Runtime | None (binary) | Node.js |
| Startup | ~10ms | Seconds |
| Install | One file | npm install |
| Platforms | All | Varies |

## Contributing

### How do I report a bug?

Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/zach-snell/bbkt/issues) with:
- What you expected
- What happened
- Steps to reproduce
- bbkt version

### How do I request a feature?

Open a GitHub issue with the `enhancement` label describing:
- What you want to do
- Why it would be useful
- Any implementation ideas

### Can I contribute code?

Yes! See the [Development](/bbkt/advanced/development) guide for setup instructions and contribution guidelines.
