docs/src/content/docs/advanced/security.mdx, before:

---
title: Security
description: Security considerations for obsidian-go-mcp.
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This page covers security considerations when using obsidian-go-mcp.

## Access Model

### File System Access

obsidian-go-mcp has **read and write access** to your vault directory and all subdirectories. It cannot access files outside the vault path you specify.

```bash
# Server only accesses /path/to/vault and below
obsidian-go-mcp /path/to/vault
```

### No Network Access

The MCP server itself makes no network connections. All operations are local file system operations.

### No Obsidian Access

obsidian-go-mcp works directly with files. It does not:
- Connect to Obsidian
- Access Obsidian's internal databases
- Require Obsidian to be running
- Interact with Obsidian plugins

## AI Assistant Considerations

<Aside type="caution">
Your AI assistant (Claude, etc.) can use obsidian-go-mcp tools to read and modify your vault. Consider what sensitive information might be in your notes.
</Aside>

### What the AI Can Access

When you use obsidian-go-mcp with an AI assistant, the AI can:

- **Read** any note in your vault
- **Search** across all content
- **View** frontmatter and metadata
- **See** file names and folder structure

### What the AI Can Modify

With your permission (through prompts), the AI can:

- Create new notes
- Edit existing notes
- Delete notes
- Move and rename notes
- Modify frontmatter
- Add/remove tags

### Data Sent to AI Provider

When you ask about your vault:
1. Your question goes to the AI provider
2. The AI decides which tools to use
3. Tool results (note content) are sent to the AI
4. The AI formulates a response

**Note content flows through your AI provider's servers** according to their data handling policies.

## Best Practices

### Sensitive Information

Consider excluding sensitive notes:

1. **Separate vault**: Keep sensitive notes in a different vault not connected to MCP
2. **Encryption**: Use Obsidian's encryption plugins for sensitive notes
3. **Selective queries**: Be mindful of what you ask the AI to search

### Vault Backup

Always maintain backups:

```bash
# Simple backup before major operations
cp -r /path/to/vault /path/to/vault-backup-$(date +%Y%m%d)
```

Or use:
- Git for version control
- Obsidian Sync
- Cloud backup services

### Review AI Actions

For destructive operations:

> "Show me what notes would be deleted before actually deleting them"

> "List the notes that would be moved, then confirm before moving"

### Limit Scope

Use directory parameters to limit operations:

```
# Instead of searching entire vault
search-vault: query="password" directory="work"
```

## MCP Protocol Security

### Local Communication

The MCP protocol uses **stdio** (standard input/output) for communication. There are no:
- Open network ports
- HTTP endpoints
- Remote connections

### Process Isolation

obsidian-go-mcp runs as a separate process:
- Spawned by your MCP client
- Communicates via stdin/stdout
- Terminates when client disconnects

### No Persistent State

The server:
- Does not store data between sessions
- Does not cache vault content
- Does not phone home

## Deployment Considerations

### Permissions

Run with minimal required permissions:

```bash
# The user running obsidian-go-mcp needs:
# - Read access to vault (for all operations)
# - Write access to vault (for modifications)
```

### Shared Systems

On shared systems:
- Ensure vault directory permissions are restrictive
- Consider separate user accounts for vault access
- Review who has access to MCP client configuration

### Enterprise Use

For enterprise deployments:
- Review your AI provider's enterprise data handling
- Consider self-hosted AI options
- Implement vault access policies
- Audit tool usage through MCP client logs

## Incident Response

### Unintended Modifications

If the AI makes unwanted changes:

1. **Stop immediately**: Don't continue the conversation
2. **Check git/backup**: Restore from version control or backup
3. **Review changes**: Use `git diff` or file system tools
4. **Understand what happened**: Review the conversation

### Data Exposure Concerns

If concerned about data exposure:

1. **Review conversation history**: What note content was shared?
2. **Check AI provider policies**: Understand data retention
3. **Assess sensitivity**: What was the potential impact?
4. **Take remediation steps**: Rotate credentials, update sensitive info

## Security Checklist

- [ ] Vault backups are configured and tested
- [ ] Sensitive notes are in a separate vault or encrypted
- [ ] AI provider's data policy is understood
- [ ] Directory permissions are appropriate
- [ ] Not running as root/admin unnecessarily
- [ ] Destructive operations are previewed before execution

Commit message:

docs: replace residual obsidian-go-mcp template strings with bbkt

docs/src/content/docs/advanced/security.mdx, after:

---
title: Security
description: Security considerations for bbkt.
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This page covers security considerations when using bbkt.

## Access Model

### File System Access

bbkt has **read and write access** to your vault directory and all subdirectories. It cannot access files outside the vault path you specify.

```bash
# Server only accesses /path/to/vault and below
bbkt /path/to/vault
```

### No Network Access

The MCP server itself makes no network connections. All operations are local file system operations.

### No Obsidian Access

bbkt works directly with files. It does not:
- Connect to Obsidian
- Access Obsidian's internal databases
- Require Obsidian to be running
- Interact with Obsidian plugins

## AI Assistant Considerations

<Aside type="caution">
Your AI assistant (Claude, etc.) can use bbkt tools to read and modify your vault. Consider what sensitive information might be in your notes.
</Aside>

### What the AI Can Access

When you use bbkt with an AI assistant, the AI can:

- **Read** any note in your vault
- **Search** across all content
- **View** frontmatter and metadata
- **See** file names and folder structure

### What the AI Can Modify

With your permission (through prompts), the AI can:

- Create new notes
- Edit existing notes
- Delete notes
- Move and rename notes
- Modify frontmatter
- Add/remove tags

### Data Sent to AI Provider

When you ask about your vault:
1. Your question goes to the AI provider
2. The AI decides which tools to use
3. Tool results (note content) are sent to the AI
4. The AI formulates a response

**Note content flows through your AI provider's servers** according to their data handling policies.

## Best Practices

### Sensitive Information

Consider excluding sensitive notes:

1. **Separate vault**: Keep sensitive notes in a different vault not connected to MCP
2. **Encryption**: Use Obsidian's encryption plugins for sensitive notes
3. **Selective queries**: Be mindful of what you ask the AI to search

### Vault Backup

Always maintain backups:

```bash
# Simple backup before major operations
cp -r /path/to/vault /path/to/vault-backup-$(date +%Y%m%d)
```

Or use:
- Git for version control
- Obsidian Sync
- Cloud backup services

### Review AI Actions

For destructive operations:

> "Show me what notes would be deleted before actually deleting them"

> "List the notes that would be moved, then confirm before moving"

### Limit Scope

Use directory parameters to limit operations:

```
# Instead of searching entire vault
search-vault: query="password" directory="work"
```

## MCP Protocol Security

### Local Communication

The MCP protocol uses **stdio** (standard input/output) for communication. There are no:
- Open network ports
- HTTP endpoints
- Remote connections

### Process Isolation

bbkt runs as a separate process:
- Spawned by your MCP client
- Communicates via stdin/stdout
- Terminates when client disconnects

### No Persistent State

The server:
- Does not store data between sessions
- Does not cache vault content
- Does not phone home

## Deployment Considerations

### Permissions

Run with minimal required permissions:

```bash
# The user running bbkt needs:
# - Read access to vault (for all operations)
# - Write access to vault (for modifications)
```

### Shared Systems

On shared systems:
- Ensure vault directory permissions are restrictive
- Consider separate user accounts for vault access
- Review who has access to MCP client configuration

### Enterprise Use

For enterprise deployments:
- Review your AI provider's enterprise data handling
- Consider self-hosted AI options
- Implement vault access policies
- Audit tool usage through MCP client logs

## Incident Response

### Unintended Modifications

If the AI makes unwanted changes:

1. **Stop immediately**: Don't continue the conversation
2. **Check git/backup**: Restore from version control or backup
3. **Review changes**: Use `git diff` or file system tools
4. **Understand what happened**: Review the conversation

### Data Exposure Concerns

If concerned about data exposure:

1. **Review conversation history**: What note content was shared?
2. **Check AI provider policies**: Understand data retention
3. **Assess sensitivity**: What was the potential impact?
4. **Take remediation steps**: Rotate credentials, update sensitive info

## Security Checklist

- [ ] Vault backups are configured and tested
- [ ] Sensitive notes are in a separate vault or encrypted
- [ ] AI provider's data policy is understood
- [ ] Directory permissions are appropriate
- [ ] Not running as root/admin unnecessarily
- [ ] Destructive operations are previewed before execution
